Good afternoon and welcome.
I'm happy to see that all of you
could make it to this session on
how to create secure applications
for iPhone and Mac OS X.
My name is David Remahl and I'm a
software security engineer at Apple.
So let's get started.
I'll start by talking about
the context that we operate in,
some of the motivation and
background for security work.
And then I'll go on to talk
about the security mechanisms
that exist on our platform.
And for the second part of the talk,
Braden Thomas will give you some
concrete coding tips that you
can apply to your applications.
So let's look at the security landscape.
Well, we have three separate groups
that I'll talk briefly about.
We have the attackers,
the hackers that want our platform
to be insecure and they develop
various attacks against it.
One thing we've seen is that attacks,
web-based attacks where files get
downloaded to a user's system and
cause the users to run malicious
software have been on the increase.
And this can happen even through trusted
websites like CNN or whatever website
you're visiting through advertising that
happens to be malicious or compromised.
We've also been seeing a continued focus
on fuzzing attacks and for those of
you who didn't attend last year's talk,
fuzzing attacks are where legitimate
file types are fed with malicious
software with corrupt data,
purposefully corrupt data,
which will cause your
application to misbehave.
And this is a common method
for finding flaws in,
for example, image codecs.
And we've also seen attacks against local
networks and the domain name system.
And we'll talk about some methods
for countering those attacks.
So, now I want to talk some about what
Apple is doing to counter these issues.
We've been working on adding protection
to the compiler and to the system that
apply to all applications on the system,
thereby increasing the overall security.
A technology we introduced in
Leopard is called Quarantine,
which protects users against downloaded
files and warns them if they're
about to execute something that
could have unexpected side effects,
such as a Trojan horse.
And we're also investing,
continuing to invest in security
frameworks like Keychain and FileVault
and other user-level features.
And finally, you,
all of you out there who... are here
to attend this presentation to learn
about what you can do to increase
the security of your applications.
We believe that you should
take advantage of the hardening
technologies that we've developed.
And just... Often this means
just toggling a switch and
enabling some hardening options.
We hope that you use our frameworks
to secure your user data.
And we hope that you test proactively,
since the attackers will be
using fuzzing techniques.
And we hope that you should also be
using the same techniques to find the
bugs before you deploy your application.
It's important to know the
platform you're developing for in
order to produce secure products.
So I'll start by going over the
differences and similarities between
the desktop security model and
what we have on the mobile devices.
So this diagram of
desktop computer system,
and I'll show you some of the
trust boundaries that exist.
Probably the most important
and the most obvious one is the
trust boundary to the network.
We don't want attackers,
remote attackers to be
able to access your system.
And we enforce this
through secure services,
firewalling, and things like that.
Another important security boundary
that exists in the system is the
separation between the regular users
of the system and the operating system,
the kernel and the slash system,
for example.
Since Mac OS X is inherently
a multi-user system,
we have strong boundaries between users.
It's important to make sure that
one user can't mess with files
created and owned by another user.
The strong Unix foundation makes
sure that we have that security.
We also have some separation
between applications,
as I'm sure you're aware.
We have virtual memory, protected memory.
So processes are
separated from each other.
But in fact, if you look at the processes
running as one particular user,
they can often interfere with each
other if they're truly malicious.
They can install plugins and use
various methods of getting into
another process address space and
cause harm to that application.
So that's something we
don't protect against.
There's also a very weak boundary
between the system and the kernel.
So let's compare this to
what we have on OS X iPhone.
We obviously have the same separation to
the network and it's probably even more
important since iPhones and iPod Touches,
they move around a lot,
get used on malicious networks like
probably what we have in here today.
And we have the same separation
between the processes running on
the iPhone and the operating system.
Since the iPhone is a single user system,
most phones have a single
individual using them.
We don't have separations between
various user-created users,
but instead we have a separation
between the user data and the
applications run by the single user.
We've also hardened the
separation between applications
running on the phone.
So the intent is for,
if one application gets compromised,
it shouldn't be able to
compromise another application
running on the same system.
So if a malicious third party application
would get installed on your system,
it ideally shouldn't be able to
compromise your mail program,
for example.
The separation between the kernel and the
operating system has also been hardened.
So even if an attacker would be able
to get root access to your system,
he wouldn't necessarily be
able to compromise the kernel.
On the desktop,
this is obviously possible since root
can load kernel extensions and does get
code to run within the kernel space.
You might notice from this
image that the applications they
actually need to get to the data.
So for this purpose,
we have services that
negotiate this access.
And that means that you should
access the user data through APIs,
and they will take care of fetching
the data securely from disk.
So next, let's review some of the
architectural hardening that we
have on the phone and on Mac OS X.
And there are some differences,
and I'll go over those.
One important hardening feature
that was added to Leopard
was the non-executable stack.
And in case you're not
aware what this means,
it's a technique for making exploitation
of buffer overflows more difficult.
A common way of exploiting a stack
buffer overflow is to redirect the
flow of execution onto some code
that you've placed on the stack.
And thanks to this CPU feature,
that attack will fail and
the program will just crash.
On the phone and the x86-64 platforms,
we also have a non-executable heap.
This means that if you allocate
memory anywhere using malloc,
you will not be able to
run code in that space.
And this further increases
the difficulty of exploiting
a stack or heap of Roboflow.
Another feature that we added to
Leopard was library randomization.
And all of the system frameworks
are moving around in memory
when you start your application.
And it's also opt-in,
so you can make your application move
around to random addresses in memory.
And the intent of this is to make it more
difficult for an attacker to find some
particular piece of exploitable memory.
And on the phone,
we're not supporting library
randomization at this point,
but it's certainly something
we're looking into.
Thank you.
Code signing,
if you've looked at the SDK and
maybe joined the developer program,
you know that code signing is
an integral part of the iPhone.
And the iPhone won't
run a non-signed code.
And we also support code signing
on Mac OS X since Leopard.
And I'll talk some more about that later.
So yeah, on the phone you don't have
an option but to sign it.
And in the future,
we're looking into how to use
code signing better on the
desktop or more completely.
Sandboxing, another Leopard technology,
allows a sandbox to be
applied to a process.
And this sandbox limits the actions that
a process can take beyond those that
would normally be permitted by Unix.
So certain system calls can be
disallowed and you can limit access
to files on a per-path basis,
for example.
And on the phone,
most of the applications
are running in a sandbox.
And this includes every
third-party application.
And I'll talk some about what this means
to you developing for that platform.
And I'm sure there will be
other sessions on that as well.
In Mac OS X, we've just been sandboxing
certain services.
And applications can currently
not run in a sandbox on Mac OS X.
Finally, we've worked on reducing the
number of set UID binaries.
Set UID binaries are binaries
with special privileges.
They run as the user who owns them,
which is most commonly root.
And because the user who starts the
application controls the environment,
this is a very significant
attack surface,
which we've often seen exploited
for local privilege escalation.
And on the iPhone,
we have zero set UID binaries,
and we're working hard on
reducing the number on Mac OS X.
And we hope that if your
application uses a set UID binary,
that you move to using launchD instead,
because that gives you control over
the environment instead of the user who
happens to be starting here executable.
So let's look at some of the technologies
used specifically on the phone.
Here we go.
It only runs signed code.
And due to the non-executable
stack and heap,
code generation is prevented.
And this makes it significantly harder
for an attacker to move from finding
an exploit to actually getting the
system to execute arbitrary code.
But you should always remember
that attacks get better and if
you have memory corruption in
your program such as in Overflow,
it's very likely to be
exploitable in some manner.
But these technologies significantly
raise the threshold for attack.
The applications are
shielded from each other,
and the way this works is that the
shared data is accessed through APIs.
And we're extending this support.
Currently,
some frameworks directly access
data on disk instead of going
through a launchd service.
But this might change in the future,
and when the framework changes,
your application will break if it
tries to access the data directly
without going through the API.
About the sandbox, Mail and Safari,
two very full-featured
applications on the phone,
are running in a sandbox that's very,
very similar to what your
applications will be running in.
And every third-party application
runs in the same sandbox,
and it's not possible to remove nor
add restrictions to that sandbox.
And you should think about the
application container in which your
application lives as your home directory.
It has the same subdirectories
like documents and library,
and that's where you
should store your data.
The approved locations for writing
specifically are temp inside
of the application container,
slash library, and slash documents.
And as I mentioned,
some other parts of the file
system may be accessible.
The sandbox may allow you access,
but the sandbox might get tighter
in the future and your application
would break in that case.
Keychain is a framework that many of
you are familiar with from Mac OS X.
And it exists on the phone,
but it's somewhat different
due to the single-user nature
of the iPhone and iPod Touch.
It's automatically unlocked
when the system starts,
and that means you don't
have to enter your password.
You might ask,
what's the point of encrypting it
if the key is on the device and it's
automatically unlocked when it starts?
And one of the reasons that this is a
good idea is that backups will remain.
So if someone steals a backup of a phone,
he won't have access to the data.
We've also,
the key that's used is unique to
each device and stored on a chip.
So it's pretty difficult for an
attacker to extract this key without
completely compromising a phone.
If your application stores
some data in the keychain,
you can rest assured that
other applications will not
be able to access that data.
The security framework is also
different from Mac OS X to the iPhone.
And we have a framework
called Certificates,
Key and Trust Services,
which provide many useful security
services such as certificates,
signatures and encryption.
Common Crypto,
which you know from Mac OS X is there.
And there's a randomization library,
which you can use if you need access to
cryptographically secure random data.
And there's the keychain,
which I already talked about.
Some things are missing from the phone,
and this includes secure
transport or open SSL.
So if you need to make secure
socket layer connections,
you should use CF network or
NSURL request to make those connections.
And Braden will show you some sample code
on how to do that later in the session.
Since it's a single user system,
there's no way of escalating
privileges and this means that there
are no authentication dialogues or
authorization and there's obviously
no interface for that either,
so those frameworks are missing.
And now let's move on to some specifics
about the Mac OS X technologies.
I mentioned quarantine,
which is a warning that a user gets
if he tries to start an application
that was downloaded from the internet.
And it shows the source of the file
and tells him what kind of file it is,
if it's a web application
or an application.
And hopefully helps the user to
make an educated decision about
whether to run that program or not.
And the Apple's application,
Apple's applications automatically
apply quarantine information
to the files they download.
And we hope that your applications
will do the same thing.
So if your application downloads
information from the internet,
we think that you should use these APIs.
And they're pretty simple.
It's like three or five functions
that you need to worry about.
And if your needs are very simple,
then you might even get along with
just setting up a security application.
And you might wonder how does
that affect preference files,
for example.
And the fact is that if the user...
If the user doesn't go through
the finder and open a file,
then the quarantine bits
don't do anything really.
So it shouldn't cause any
problems for your application.
And you can even combine
these technologies,
the info property list and the functions,
to annotate the downloads, for example,
with the source URL.
Code signing exists on the desktop.
It was initially available
on the desktop in Leopard,
and we hope that you continue to sign
your applications if you already started,
or that you start to sign your
applications with your own key.
And this is useful for end users,
since technologies such as Keychain
take advantage of code signing to
present fewer dialogues to the user,
bothering him less
often for his password.
And it's also useful for
institutional customers who want
to enforce policy on their network,
for example.
Finally, I want to talk about
file system permissions.
They're sort of the last line of
defense of the operating system.
If someone has compromised the
system and started to run code on it,
he'll likely want to escalate privileges.
And insecure file system permissions
might be one way of doing that.
So to reduce that risk,
we want to tighten the default
permissions on the system.
And if you want to
cooperate with this effort,
we hope that you follow some
pretty simple guidelines.
We've, ever since 10.0,
we've been telling you to not
modify the application bundle
inside of the /applications folder.
And this obviously remains true
that you shouldn't do that.
We're considering tightening
the restrictions on
/applications and /library.
So if you need to write
to those locations,
do it during install when
you're writing files as root.
We also hope that you avoid using the
world writable locations on the system,
and these include /library/caches/temp.
And we have API for getting other
directories that can be used to store
temporary files or caches that Braden
will go into more detail about.
So with that,
I want to hand over to Braden Thomas,
who will present the
second part of this talk.
Hi, my name is Braden Thomas,
and I'm a product security
engineer at Apple.
And today I'm going to show you some
secure coding tips that you can use to
improve the security of your application.
So I'm going to show you three
scenarios in which you can apply
these secure coding tips to improve
the security of your application.
The first is synchronization
between multiple components.
Today, your application may have a server
back-end or multiple components or even
have a peer-to-peer synchronization,
and you want to securely synchronize
data between those components,
and I'm going to show you how to do that.
Second, all your data might not
come from a server back-end.
You might be accepting data from
the user or from the network,
and so to process this user-created data,
I'm going to tell you how to handle
untrusted data properly and also how
to interact with the file system,
which may itself be untrusted,
and how to do so securely.
And finally,
I'm going to give you some simple
security hardening measures that
you can add to your application very
easily to secure your application
with very little effort by you.
So first,
let's begin with data synchronization.
So the iPhone especially has
platform constraints such as disk
space and processing constraints
that may encourage you to have
multiple like a server back end.
Additionally,
it's a highly mobile platform
and as David mentioned,
because of the security landscape,
you should expect man in the
middle attacks between your
application and your server back end.
You can't trust DNS and so instead you
should rely on cryptographic security to
ensure that the communication is secure.
I'll show you how to do that in a minute.
Additionally, as the mobile device will
increasingly have private data on it,
such as data returned by core location,
you should adopt a stringent
privacy policy to always ask
first before transmitting this
data to your back end server.
So let's look at an application,
an example application,
in this case a shopping list application.
So this shopping list is
acquired from a back-end server,
but it's also accessible to the
user via a web page where they
can review their shopping list.
Clearly this is a very simple example.
But for this data
synchronization strategy,
you need to consider three aspects.
The first is authentication,
how your applications are
authenticating to your backend server.
Second, the integrity of the data being
returned to your applications.
And third, encryption of the data being
communicated across all channels.
The concern with authentication
is a brute force attack whereby
a hacker provides a dictionary
of passwords to your server
and if one of them is correct,
gets valid user data back.
Let's look at how you can prevent that.
We recommend the use of client-side
certificates because we have
the support built into the APIs.
It provides improved security because
client-side certificates are far
harder to brute force than passwords
because as much as we want our
users to create secure passwords,
it's very rare that they actually do.
Second, if the user changes
passwords on one platform,
as they generally do when
they're using platforms,
they have to go through that
annoying process of synchronizing
all those passwords manually
on their various systems.
And if they use client-side certificates,
they can just stick with
that one certificate.
So let's look at how you would
do that with iPhone APIs.
First, you need to generate and sign
that certificate on the server.
Second, you transmit that certificate in
the form of a PKCS12 blob down to
your iPhone in an encrypted format.
Then you import the data from that
PKCS12 blob and get out a Sec Identity.
Finally, when you're actually doing the
communication that requires
authentication to the server,
you want to use that Sec Identity
as a SSL certificate's
property in your CF Readstream.
And so that's how you
handle authentication.
Let's consider the next aspect
of data synchronization,
which is integrity.
Now the concern here is that an
attacker can insert himself in the
middle of your communication and return
malicious data to your applications.
So as you can see in our example here,
you might be buying a Plasma TV,
which you didn't want to buy,
but the attacker made you think you did.
Or you could be running malicious
JavaScript in a web browser.
So, to perform integrity checking,
all you need to do is use an
NSURL connection with an HTTPS URL or
a CF read stream with an HTTPS URL.
Now, the difference between the two is
that with the foundation layer,
you need to use a trusted certificate,
whereas with the CF layer,
you don't need to use
a trusted certificate.
You may want to consider and weigh
the pros and cons of both approaches.
Now, obviously,
a trusted certificate is going to cost
you some money since you'll need to pay
a CA to sign that certificate for you.
However,
it won't provide you any cryptographic
benefit because at the end of the day,
the same cryptography is occurring.
But Foundation is probably a simpler
implementation for your application,
and that same certificate can be
shared with a web interface where the
user requires a trusted certificate
to be able to view the details on
your website and verify that they're
connecting to the correct site.
If you do choose to use
a non-trust certificate,
which may be right for your application,
there's a couple steps you need to take.
First, before connecting,
you need to disable chain validation.
And you do this by setting the
SSL validates chain property to false.
And then you go ahead
and do the connection,
reading out the data.
After you read the data and
have performed the connection,
before processing it,
to verify the peer trust,
You pull out the SSL peer trust property.
And then you set your own anchor
certificate to whatever you want
your anchor certificate to be,
if it's maybe your own
CA embedded in the application.
And you evaluate the trust to verify that
you're receiving a valid certificate.
So that's integrity.
Let's look next at encryption.
Of course,
the standard attack for encryption is
an attacker is on your local network
or some node on the way to your server
and is able to read user private data.
So you, of course,
get this for free if you're
using an HTTPS server.
And this works with
NSURL connection or CFREAD stream
as shown in the prior example.
This is most critical when
you're transmitting any kind of
personally identifiable data,
such as a user's location.
So, as I mentioned before, all your data,
of course, isn't going to come from
your server back end.
Some of that data may come
from the user himself.
Here's your application,
and you want to receive this
user-created data over the
network or if you're running on
the desktop via the file system.
You have to consider things
like buffer overflows,
integer overflows,
format string vulnerabilities.
These are your standard memory
management corruption vulnerabilities.
However,
if you're receiving untrusted data,
you also need to consider
if that data is HTML.
So let's look at this closer.
Additionally, when you're interacting
with the file system,
if you're on a desktop system,
you have to consider that the file
system itself could be untrusted
if there's local attackers
potentially on that system.
So we need to consider race conditions.
So first, let's look at buffer overflows.
Buffer overflows, as you probably know,
are when data is copied into
a buffer that's too small.
And this commonly occurs when you're
using unsafe string functions.
We recommend using the following
string functions as opposed to
the strcat and strcopy or the
strcat and strcopy functions.
We recommend the L variety.
Or the sprintf vsprintf.
We recommend the snprintf and vsprintf.
And finally,
you should never use the gets function.
So, string functions will
only help you so far.
If you're doing manual memory
copying from one buffer to another,
you need to perform your
own sanity checking.
But let's look closer at
these string functions.
Here you have a destination
buffer that's five bytes,
and you're copying in a string
that's six characters long with
a null termination that's seven
bytes into the smaller buffer.
If you use stir copy,
you're going to get a simple buffer
overflow overriding uninitialized
memory past the size of the buffer.
This is probably exploitable
for code execution.
We don't recommend this
for obvious reasons.
Next, if you use the stir in copy,
you're not going to overwrite
the uninitialized data past
the destination buffer size.
However, you do have to be concerned
because no null termination of your
destination buffer has occurred.
So if you're later using
this destination buffer,
whether it's an insecure string function,
or if you're trying to
determine the length,
you've lost that length value.
It's no longer a C string,
null terminate C string,
so it's more difficult for you to
determine the length of that buffer.
This could possibly lead to your
application crashing by reading
into uninitialized memory.
So instead,
we recommend using the strlcopy function.
This will null terminate the destination
buffer and not perform a buffer overflow.
However, you still have to consider what
sort of application-specific
consequences occurred by truncating
whatever data is being copied.
And that really just needs
to be handled in code,
and you can check the return
value of the strlcopy function to
determine if truncation has occurred.
So that's buffer overflows.
Let's look at another very
common memory corruption issue,
integer overflows.
An integer overflow occurs when
you're performing an arithmetic
operation and the integer that
you're performing that operation on
exceeds or goes under the size of
the data type that that integer is.
For example, on a 32-bit platform,
an int would be 32 bits, where on 64-bit,
it would be 64 bits.
So here's a common code
pattern that we commonly see
integer overflows occurring in.
And I'm going to walk you through it.
First, we define a binary data structure.
And this binary data structure defines
data that is a number of entries followed
by memory allocated for those entries.
Entry itself is a structure with a
static size that I don't show here.
So we're reading data
in as this data blob.
We're then going to copy this
data blob into another data blob.
And what we do is we first allocate the
destination by multiplying the number
of entries by the size of each entry.
And that's pretty intuitive.
We then step through each
entry and we copy them one
by one into our destination.
But the highlighted code here has a
problem and it's an integer overflow.
So when we multiply the number of
entries by the size of each entry,
the resulting value could
potentially overflow and allocate
less memory than we thought.
When we then do the one-by-one copy,
it would result in a heap overflow,
leading to code execution.
So for example,
if the size of an entry is
10 bytes and an attacker
passes in a number of entries,
which is 1-9999-A,
the resulting multiplication
would overflow the one
past the 32 bits available,
and the 32-bit type would
be truncated to four.
So we'd only have four bytes
allocated for our destination,
and when we did the one-by-one copy,
we would overflow that
buffer very quickly.
So we introduced in
Leopard the CheckInt.h API,
which is a header file containing
macros you can use to prevent integer
overflows in your application.
To show how this would solve
the problem in the example,
first we include the checkint.h header.
Then, when we perform the multiplication,
we actually use the check
unsigned int 32 multiply macro.
The first two arguments are
the two values that we're
going to multiply together.
The third argument is a
pointer to an integer.
And this integer is an error value.
If that value is ORed with an error,
then when we return,
we know that an integer
overflow has occurred.
So check this integer value after
you perform the multiplication.
If there's no error,
then you can go on through your code and
you know that you're safe to do the copy.
So a next common type of
memory vulnerability is a
format string vulnerability.
This occurs when you take a format
string function like printf and you
don't pass a format specifier string.
A format specifier string is just
the percent s or the percent d that
you see in this printf example.
If you don't do this,
you open yourself up to code execution.
So while you may know about
this in terms of printf,
you might not have known that
all these other functions exist
that also take format strings.
And you should be very careful when
using any one of these functions to
ensure that you're not causing format
string vulnerability in your application.
We recently saw a lot of exploitation
with the month of Apple bugs with the
NS alert and alert methods because
people weren't entirely certain that
these actually accepted format strings.
So let's look at what an attacker can do
with such a format string vulnerability.
So this simple program just copies
an argument from the command line
into a buffer and then prints it out.
Now the copy is safe because we're
using the STOREL copy and passing
the size of the destination buffer,
but the printf is unsafe
because it doesn't contain
a format specifier string.
So the attacker will first
try and run this with,
say, 4% Xs.
Now,
because the parameter area occurs before
the local variable area in the stack,
these 4% Xs,
which would normally just print out the
hex value of arguments to the printf,
since there's no arguments to
the printf aside from the buffer,
this will just print out data
that occurs next on the stack.
So you see we have this
BFF92D sum data on the stack,
followed by 400, followed by 0,
followed by this 41414141.
This value is special because it
is the hex equivalent of this AAAA.
Now, what that tells the attacker is that
he has now hit the local variable area,
because he's printing out this AAAA,
which is existing in this buffer
allocated in the local variable area.
Now, what the attacker can now
do is use the %n specifier.
Now,
this is rarely used by modern programs,
but what it does is it writes the number
of bytes printed by a printf function
into a variable stored in that argument.
Because there's no arguments here,
we've replaced the last percent X,
which corresponded to the 41, 41, 41,
with this percent in.
So we now know that we're going to be
writing some value into this address.
And if you can see here,
GDB showed that we crashed trying
to write into that address.
And this 41, 41, 41,
41 is just used as an example,
but an attacker could specify
any arbitrary address here.
So we know what he's writing into.
What is he writing?
So if you use the percent 100,000X,
this will print out a
whole bunch of values,
artificially increasing the number
of bytes that have been printed.
So the attacker can kind of
indirectly specify what data is
going to be written into that value.
And as you can see in GDB,
the instruction is trying to write this
32-bit value into the address 41414141.
And what it's trying to write,
as you can see,
is 100,000 and some change because
that's what the attacker has specified.
And so he can use this write what
where to attack your application
and easily cause code execution.
And so that's why you have to be very
careful with format string functions.
So those are common memory
handling vulnerabilities.
Let's look at some other untrusted data.
One type of untrusted data that
you might be receiving is HTML.
So on Mac OS X,
if you were displaying HTML that
you received off the network,
you could use web preferences
to turn off JavaScript and
plugins in your application.
But on iPhone, we don't support the web
preferences currently.
So you have to be very careful
with HTML that's loaded from
the local zone from a file.
This might hit you if you're
using some kind of HTML template
where you have the HTML already,
and then you're formatting
in user-supplied data.
So what an attacker could do is he could
supply his own data to inject malicious
JavaScript into the HTML displayed,
for example, in your UI web view,
and cause undesired effects,
or potentially he could read
arbitrary files off the system,
so anyway,
you want to avoid using these kind
of HTML templates unless you're
very certain that your application
won't be subject to these kind
of cross-site scripting attacks.
Finally, I also want to mention
the NS Archiver format.
Now, this format is commonly
used in nib files,
and some people might even use
it as a simple document type.
But it really acts as frozen code,
and it's not intended for
use as a generic document,
because if an attacker can supply
arbitrary data to NS Unarchiver,
he can unarchive any number of
classes that you're not expecting,
and he can probably use
that to get code execution.
So instead,
we recommend using property lists,
whether you're using NS property list
serialization or one of the convenience
functions in foundation classes,
like write to file.
So that's untrusted data.
Let's look at untrusted file
systems very briefly in terms of
a Mac OS X desktop application.
So what we have here is a pretty common
example of how an application might
read or might delete an old cache
file and then create a new cache file.
This operation probably occurs in the
course of a few milliseconds where
he's removing the old cache and then
opening and writing the new cache.
However, in the meantime,
an attacker could create a symlink there.
The result is when the new cache
file is opened and written,
the data is actually sent to
the attacker-supplied path.
This could overwrite
user-created documents,
causing data loss.
It could even potentially
decode execution.
So to prevent this on iPhone,
this is very easy.
You just stay in your
application container.
You don't have to worry
about any of this stuff.
On Mac OS X, you don't have to worry
On Mac OS X, as David mentioned earlier,
you need to avoid /tmp and
/library/caches since they're
world-writable locations and
you're subject to this attack.
You should really only use these
locations if it's absolutely
critical that your application share
data that's writable by multiple
processes that have multiple users.
But if you're only sharing
data amongst one user,
you should instead use the protected
var folders alternative because
this is a per-user location.
So in Cocoa, to do this,
you use the NSTemporaryDirectory API.
And this will get you a directory that
you're probably already using this API.
It will give you a directory that is safe
to use on a per-user basis and won't be
subject to race conditions like /tmp.
If you're operating at a lower level,
you can use the CAPI compster.
If you pass in the
DarwinUserTempter constant,
you'll get out the same value
as NSTemporaryDirectory.
If you pass in the
DarwinUserCaster constant,
you'll get out a cache directory that's
per-user that's constant across boot.
And we really recommend you use this
instead of /library slash caches.
And if you're interested in what
one of these locations looks like,
you can use the shell tool, gitconf,
and you can pass in like
DarwinUserTempter or
DarwinUserCaster to see what one
of these locations looks like.
And as you can see,
they're very unique per-user
because of the UUID that's in there.
So that's managing untrusted data.
Let's look at what you can
do in your application to
harden it against attackers.
Some of these are very easy.
So first of all,
we recommend the use of privilege
separation where applicable.
A privilege separation involves
factoring your application
into multiple components.
And when you do that,
each component has less code
and reduces attack surface.
But you have to ask,
where do you do this factoring?
So you want to factor out things
that are extremely high risk,
for example.
And these high risk components can
be easily sandboxed or they can
be run with reduced privileges.
And I'll give you an
example use case for that.
And with these privilege
separated helpers,
you're probably going to
be doing communication over
CF message port or local socket.
Additionally, in Snow Leopard,
we're introducing a service management
API that makes adding jobs and
privileged helpers much easier.
Because you can just use API.
Previously,
you had to use an authorization execute
with privileges trampoline to install
a P list directly into launch day.
And you no longer need to
do that in Snow Leopard.
However, you will need to opt into code
signing because the application has
to trust which job it's starting
and the job has to trust which
application it's communicating with.
So both of those processes
need to be code signed.
Additionally,
you will need to still obtain
rights to add a helper.
And that is the add privilege
job authorization right.
And the application would pre-authorize
then call the service management API.
So let's look at a couple of use
cases that are very commonly used
where privilege separation would
help you in your application.
The first is authorized tasks.
If you currently have an authorized task,
you may be using authorization
execute with privileges.
You may be using a set
UID or self-repairing tools.
We don't recommend that
you do that because,
as David mentioned,
especially with set UIDs,
that's generally very difficult to do
correctly and often will lead to security
vulnerabilities in your application.
So instead,
we recommend using one of these
privileged helpers and sending an
authorization ref in external form over
a CF message port or over a local socket.
And if you want,
you can look at the better authorization
sample on developer.apple.com,
which uses a local Unix socket to pass
over a serialized authorization ref.
And you can just grab that
source and use it right there.
So additionally,
another common use case for
privilege separation is if,
for example,
you have a really complex media
format or document format and you're
a little nervous about your code.
You're not sure that it's 100% secure
against any kind of corrupted data.
So, for example,
we use this internally on H.264 decoding,
and we have this thing called
the SBX Profile Pure Computation.
And you can pass this in Sandbox init,
and it will create a sandbox
for that helper that will only
be used for pure computation.
And file system and network
access is not allowed.
And in such a case,
you would receive the raw data,
maybe off the network or
from the main application.
And you would return these
parsed and vetted structures.
Basically, the meat of the decoding
occurs in this helper tool.
So now let's look at some security
hardening compiler flags that
David briefly mentioned earlier,
and these provide you
with some free security.
So the first is defortify
source equals two.
Now, this converts some certain insecure
string functions like the ones
I showed earlier into a secure variant.
Now, this isn't a silver bullet because
the compiler needs to determine
at compile time what the size
of the destination buffer is.
And the compiler is not as intelligent
as the developer who wrote the code is,
so not all of these
uses will be converted.
So we're actually planning to implement
this by default in Snow Leopard,
but it's a good idea for you
to use it now to work out any
possible issues you should have.
Second, there's the fstackprotector
compiler flag.
This will add stack
canaries to your code,
and what a stack canary does is it
sits like a little canary right before
the return address on the stack.
And if an attacker manages
to overwrite the stack and
overwrite that return address,
the canary dies.
And when the canary dies,
the program dies.
We're also planning on implementing
this by default in Snow Leopard,
and again, we recommend using it now to
make sure that there aren't
any issues with your program.
For example, in Snow Leopard,
when we turned these things on,
in one or two applications,
we found that we actually had a latent
overflow that occurred that we were
able to fix because we turned this on.
Next, there's the linker flag
for position independence.
David mentioned this briefly.
It's the PI flag,
and it will randomize the
load address of an executable,
your executable.
And currently, by default,
all system libraries will be randomized.
However, you're executable,
and whatever libraries that you load
on the fly or whatever libraries
you supply won't be randomized.
So by turning this on,
you improve library randomization,
and that makes it much more
difficult for an attacker to use
these return to libc attacks,
where he jumps into known code
that performs some operation
he can use to his benefit.
Finally, there's a warning flag,
W Format Security.
And this warning flag just
provides additional warnings at
compile time that will warn you if
you're maybe using format string
functions in an insecure manner.
So to summarize what Dave and
I talked about today,
the security of OS X and iPhone
is continually improving.
And if your applications opt in early,
they can get the benefit of these
improvements and ease the process.
Additionally,
if your application is receiving files,
we recommend that you turn on quarantine,
whether programmatically
or via the Info.plist.
Especially with iPhone
and mobile devices,
you should expect a malicious network.
So never trust DNS.
Rely on cryptographically
secure communication.
If you're handling
untrusted data or files,
be sure to avoid things
like buffer overflows,
integer overflows,
format string vulnerabilities.
And if you can,
use privilege separation to put the meat
of your processing code in a separate
process and sandbox that process.
Finally,
we showed you some compiler flags
you can use to provide additional
security hardening for your application
with very little effort by you,
the developer.
Here's some contact information that you
can use to get additional information.
We recommend these sessions.
You might want to see them
if you're really interested
in security on the iPhone.
And we're going to be,
especially in the Mac OS X security labs,
we recommend these security labs.